Hello welcome back to the course on machine learning.
In today's Tauriel I'm going to show you my solution of the challenge that I threw at you last.
So in the previous tutorial we had the challenge to calculate the posterior probability of somebody
being a person that drives to work and given that they are placed in a position where we are placing
the new observation for our daughter said.
So basically what is the likelihood of that new observation or presenting a person who drives to work
.
And the way we each calculate is using the Bayes Theorem which is right in front of us.
Now we're going to walk through it.
We're going to calculate the probability then we calculate the marginal likelihood and then we're going
to calculate likelihood and we can compare along the way.
If you got the same results.
So let's go through it.
So there's our data set.
And now let's move to the left makes MySpace and the first thing we're going to calculate is the prior
probability the prior probability this kind of two ways to think about it so the first way to think
about it is if I just randomly select a person from our data set right now.
So not including grade automatically then you datapoint if I randomly select a person from there what
is the likelihood of them being a person who drives to work.
Right.
So that'll be just the number of the answer to that is the number of green does or the total number
of dots.
The other way to think about it is if I just randomly throw a new data point into our data set right
just randomly and without knowing anything about their age or salary then just knowing all of this prior
information that we have the green dots and the red dots What is the likelihood of that person that
we're adding or is there a likelihood to be a person who drives to work.
Again we don't have is very simple because we don't have any other choice but to calculate the probability
and assign the probability just based on what we know and that is just to take the green dots the 20
green dots divide by the total number of dots here and assign that as a probability.
So we don't have any other choice and therefore that's what it's calculated as.
So the probability of somebody being a person who drives to work or a random Daut selected out of our
existing dots being a person who drives to work is the number of drivers which is 20 divided by total
duration which is 30.
So 20 or 30.
So that was the prior probability we've done that.
Next one is a marginal likelihood.
So let's go ahead and calculate that and you'll find that the marginal likelihood is actually going
to be exactly the same as in the previous tutorial.
And we'll talk about this separately.
So again we're going to draw a circle around our observation which remove observations.
It's not in the way.
We're going to shade in this area.
And so now the marginal likelihood is the question What is the likelihood of if I just pick a random
dot from our dataset just randomly.
What is the likelihood that I'm going to pick one out of here.
So what was the reason why we put X here it is because what is the likelihood of me picking a observation
that exhibits features similar to the features of that point that we are adding to our data set.
So the point we're adding to that is that we've just removed it is over there and we've agreed that
any dot inside the circle is deemed to be similar to that data or in other words deemed to be exhibiting
similar features.
So similar age and similar salary to that dot and therefore that's what we're calculating.
So X is very simple we just need to calculate the number of similar observations the number of objects
that actually fall in here which is four divide by the total number observations which are 30 so that
will give us the likelihood of a new dot falling here or the likelihood of if we just pick out a random
dot from our data set right now then the likelihood of it being one of these is for over 30.
There we go.
Four or three.
All right so that is our marginal likelihood done and now we're going to move on just the likelihood
and this time is going to be the likelihood of somebody exhibiting the features of X or being similar
to the data point that we're adding given that we're only looking at people who are driving to work
.
So let's have a look at that.
Here's our data set and again we're going to draw the circle around our data point take it out and then
add that shading.
So now the question is given that we only dealing with people who drive to work what is the likelihood
that if we pick one of them that that person will be exhibiting features similar to x.
So because we're only dealing with the people who drive to work we can forget about the red dots.
There are other shedded there faded out and now we're only dealing with the green dots.
So the question is given that we're selecting a random point out of all the people that drive.
So this vertical bar drives means given that a person drives to work.
So we circled around him point out of these what is the likelihood that they will exhibit features similar
to X which we agreed is the same as they fall inside the circle and the likelihood of that is one over
the total number of green dots.
So there we go.
P of x given that they drive to work is the number of similar observation and on those who walk.
So inside here is one similar meaning similar to our new points that were added and then divided by
the total number of walkers and that's 20.
So one over 20 that is our likelihood.
There we go.
So now we can plug these into the formula calculate the posterior probability.
So it's going to be one over 20 times 21:30 two hours before with 30 and it's 0.25.
So 25 percent.
So there you go.
That was step two all of our naive base algorithm or the based classifier.
Hopefully you were able to fall long and also that I hope that you had chance to perform that exercise
on your own and you got a similar result and that's it for today.
I look forward to seeing you next time.
And until then in machine learning